Good morning, everybody.
It's good to see you all here
early in the morning on the
first full day of the conference.
We've got a lot of cool new
stuff to show you in Tiger.
So the outline of what we're
going to talk about today,
I'll give a quick recap of the
Bonjour technology for the few
people in the audience who may not
be completely familiar with it.
I'm going to cover what's new,
and then we're going to do some hands-on
demonstration examples to show you with
real code how easy it is to use this.
And then my colleague Kiran Sarkar is
going to talk about the new wide area
Bonjour capabilities that are in Tiger,
and he will show you some
examples of how you can set up
your own wide area Bonjour server
using a standard DNS server.
So the recap.
This is what was an hour-long talk
at the first WWDC presentation
on zero configuration networking,
and now it's one slide,
but I do want to cover it to make
sure we're all on the same page.
[Transcript missing]
That happens pretty
much today using DHCP.
If you show up at a conference like
this or you're in a hotel room,
using DHCP,
you can just plug into the Ethernet
or join the wireless network and
you get an address automatically.
So that aspect of IP is
reasonably well handled.
The aspect that isn't handled
is when you're not on a big
network run by an administrator.
It's just your computer and
your printer and a cable.
And there is no DHCP server.
There is no DNS server.
And before Bonjour,
IP would just fall on its face and
not have any idea what to do because
there was no server there to tell it.
And that's what Bonjour fixed.
The technology that made
that work are three things.
IPv4 link local addressing gives
you an address when there's no
DHCP server to hand one out.
Multicast DNS gives you name
lookup when there's no DNS server
to look up names for you.
And the third thing is a new step
forward from good old-fashioned IP,
and that's browsing the network
with DNS service discovery
to discover what's out there.
DNS service discovery works equally well
on multicast DNS in the local case and,
as you'll see now, using standard unicast
DNS in the wide area case.
Since we launched this
technology three years ago,
it's become very widely available.
It's been in several Mac OS releases.
It's been in Windows.
It's in Linux.
It's in many,
many software products from Apple.
Pretty much anything on the
Mac that does networking uses
Bonjour because the engineers at
Apple clearly see the benefits.
Safari uses it.
iChat uses it.
iTunes uses it,
both for peer-to-peer iTunes
music networking and also for
discovering the Airport Express.
Those of you who've got
an Airport Express will
know you just plug it in,
and it just appears in that pop-up menu
at the bottom of the iTunes window.
No typing in addresses
or any of that nonsense.
If there's one there, it shows up.
All of that made possible by Bonjour.
Network printers have very
widely adopted Bonjour,
and that's why they just show
up in the print dialogue.
TiVo is using it.
Many,
many hardware products are using it.
So what's new since the last time we met?
Well,
for those of you who haven't heard yet,
Rendezvous is now Bonjour.
We have a new name, but the same logo,
and from now on, you won't be hearing the
word Rendezvous anymore.
What else is new since
the last time we met?
All of the specification documents
have been updated to reflect what
the software now does in Tiger.
We made a lot of improvements
in Tiger compared with Panther,
and a lot of the third-party
device makers were asking
for the details of that.
And as soon as we got Tiger shipped,
we focused on getting all
those documents updated.
Link Local Addressing After many
years of work at the IETF,
just last month was published.
It's now an official IETF standard RFC.
The other drafts are all available
at the dns-sd.org website.
That's linked off the
Apple Bonjour website,
so you can find that very easily.
What else is new?
Well, big news.
We've released Bonjour for Windows.
Many of our hardware makers
making devices like cameras
and printers said to us,
"We love this Bonjour on the Mac.
We love link local addressing,
and it's just absolutely fabulous.
You plug things in and they just work.
But what about Windows?" We still have
to have the manual this thick explaining
how to set it up for Windows users.
We made Bonjour for Windows available,
and as of today,
you can now license Bonjour for
Windows to include with your product.
So instead of having a manual that
thick and huge tech support costs
answering the phone trying to
explain to people how to set it up,
you just put the installer
on the CD in the box,
and Windows users get...
Not exactly the same
ease of use as Mac users,
but they get the ability to
discover Bonjour devices on the
network in Internet Explorer.
They get the ability to set
up printers without hassle.
They get the ability to run other
software that you may develop running
on Windows using the same APIs as OS X.
Setting up printers is
an interesting story.
There's a website called iFelix,
not affiliated with Apple or Microsoft.
I just happened to find it one day.
And they have a bunch of how-to
instruction files telling people how
to set up computers and solve problems.
And they had a page on how to
do network printing on Windows.
And I printed it out.
And the paper came to more than six feet,
taller than I am, and it stuck up on the
wall outside my office.
And recently they added a
link at the top of that page.
That said, don't do this.
Just install Bonjour for Windows.
And the new instructions with
Bonjour for Windows are four screenshots.
And actually the first screenshot
is the introduction and the final
screenshot is the congratulations,
you've finished.
So it's only really two screenshots.
And I wanted to make it less than that.
I actually wanted us to have
in the first screen just a
button saying I'm feeling lucky.
And you click it and the window
disappears and you're done.
So that's available for Windows,
which meets one of the big needs
that hardware developers are having.
were asking us.
It's available for licensing today.
Contact bonjourdev@apple.com
and we'll sort out the details
of getting that on your CD.
It's available for public
download to anybody who wants
it today at apple.com/bonjour.
I picked up a magazine.
I just came back from London,
and I picked up this
magazine in the airport.
What Hi-Fi?
Like a lot of Hi-Fi magazines,
they're still extolling the virtues
of LPs and turntables and vinyl.
But they had a review of
network music players.
Their top-rated music player, well,
actually the only one that didn't stink,
basically, was the Roku SoundBridge,
which I'm sure people who have been here
before saw me show in previous years.
Very nice little elegant product.
Implements link local addressing and
multicast DNS and DNS server discovery,
all of the Bonjour conformance
test checklist items,
and you just plug it in and it works.
The other interesting thing was in
their annual roundup of products,
they created a new category.
First time this year,
Technology Product of the Year,
and that award went to the
Airport Express for playing music.
And this is really,
really gratifying to the Bonjour team.
Because those products both singled out
in this magazine as being the Hi-Flyers,
made possible by Bonjour.
Now, of course,
as a technology behind the scenes,
you won't see that
mentioned in the magazine.
They don't know why it works,
they just know that it works.
And partly that's because while we were
in the transition of picking a new name,
companies were not putting
Rendezvous or Bonjour on their boxes.
Well, as of today, you can license the
logo and the trademark.
But you can't license the
As well as licensing Bonjour for Windows.
And I encourage all of you to do that
and start putting that logo on the boxes.
Because somebody described
Bonjour as the best kept secret
in the networking industry.
I heard somebody at this
conference asking the question,
"When are printer makers
going to start adopting it?"
Pretty much every printer,
every network printer you can
buy today from every network
printer maker does Bonjour,
but they don't say on the
box because we're in the
process of changing the name.
I'm not saying that these products
in these magazines were necessarily
the best because they use Bonjour.
It's not some magic fairy dust
that you sprinkle on a bad product
and it magically becomes good.
But there is a definite correlation
that the kind of developers who
care about doing Bonjour are the
kind of developers who get all
the other details right as well.
And it's not a slight difference.
It's night and day.
Jim Laudebach wrote a Ziff Davis article
about network music players.
He reviewed four of them.
Three of them he gave up after two
hours and couldn't get them to work.
The fourth was the Roku.
He plugged it in.
It worked in 30 seconds.
And you want to put the Bonjour logo on
your packaging to let people know which
of those groups your product falls in.
Last year, we previewed the Java API,
and I'm pleased to tell you that that
API was polished up and finished.
It's in Tiger.
It's in Bonjour for Windows.
It also went into the
10.3.9 software update,
so for those of you making Java apps,
you don't need to require Tiger.
So that's there from 10.3.9 and
later for the Java programmers.
And the other big new feature,
which Kieran's going to tell you about,
is wide area Bonjour.
[Transcript missing]
So now it's time for the demo.
We will switch to demo one, please.
OK.
So what I want to show you
right now is how easy it is to
Add Bonjour to hardware products,
how easy it is to use in
software applications in a
variety of different languages.
[Transcript missing]
This is a network camera made
by a company called Axis.
And those of you who were at the
developer conference when we first
announced Rendezvous as it was
then in Mac OS 10.2 will remember
I showed some Axis cameras on stage.
And we had a demo where
the Mac software was real,
but all the hardware was being simulated.
And the point of the demo was to
show how the world could be if these
devices adopted Bonjour or Rendezvous.
Access is one of the companies
that's been shipping Bonjour-enabled
products for about a year,
but most people don't know
that unless you happen to
notice it show up in Safari.
Starting now,
they'll be making a fuss about
that in their marketing and
putting the logo on the box.
The other thing I love about
this Access camera is this
does power over Ethernet,
and that really addresses one of the
last criticisms of IP-based networking.
The advantage of USB and FireWire
is you don't need a power brick
because you get power on the cable.
And power over Ethernet was invented a
few years ago by companies like Cisco to
power their IP phones on the desktop
and to power wireless base stations
that you put into the ceiling space.
and it was too expensive.
If you want to put wireless base stations
down the corridor in your company,
and you have to hire an electrician
to crawl through the ceiling space and
put the power outlets to power them,
he's going to charge you
about $100 an outlet.
So Cisco said, OK,
we'll charge you about $100
a port on the Ethernet hub.
So a 24-port Ethernet switch
would cost you $2,500.
And that kind of put it out of reach as a
practical technology for home consumers.
I'm very excited that Netgear has
started shipping a $100 hub that
provides power over Ethernet.
And we plug this in.
This runs Linux,
so it's powered over the cable.
Some of you may remember some of the
products I've shown in previous years.
This is the SCH Intercom print server.
I think this was the first
Bonjour-capable print server.
You plug it in the parallel port
and you connect the Ethernet.
You'll see the power brick is about
as big as the print server itself.
Stuart Cheshire
This is the Site Player Telnet.
It connects to the serial port
so you can telnet over the
Ethernet to a serial device.
Power brick bigger than the device.
This is a beautiful little IO gear thing.
This is a print server.
USB in this side, Ethernet out this side.
Power brick.
These things are all crying
out for power over Ethernet.
So for the hardware makers in the room,
definitely I urge you to consider
looking at power over Ethernet
now the price is coming down.
It can save all of this spaghetti wiring.
So you'll see the Axis
camera showing up in Safari.
I can double click it and it connects.
So we discovered it, but
Viewing video in a web
page is kind of cumbersome.
Modern video streaming is done using RTP,
and QuickTime can play RTP streams.
So I thought it wouldn't be much better
if we could actually just discover the
RTP streaming service this camera offers,
rather than just a generic web page.
So let's go to setup.
Now, this runs Linux,
so you can just get the Darwin code
and compile the responder.
Fortunately, I didn't have to because
Access has already done that.
What I did with this camera was I went
into the little scripting editor that
they've got built in to the camera
and in the configuration directory,
this is their services file that
describes the services on the camera.
It was already advertising HTTP,
and it was advertising Access Video.
I added this section here to add RTSP,
reboot the camera,
and now when we look in QuickTime Player,
This is in QuickTime Player 7
on Panther and on Tiger.
In the Open URL panel,
you pull down this menu and it
will discover Bonjour advertised
RTP streams on the network.
You select it and we have Bonjour.
We have networked video.
So that was a quick prototype.
That was about half an hour's work.
What I want to show you now is how
we added that to QuickTime Player.
One of the tools here,
if you've not seen Bonjour Browser,
it's a great tool for developers.
It will just browse the network
and tell you what's there.
Now, this can be hard on the network.
You don't want to leave
it running all the time.
[Transcript missing]
The dns-sd command is really
an internal testing tool,
but we ship it with Tiger because
it is such a useful testing tool,
both in the development process
and in troubleshooting networks.
So I will do a-b,
browse for HTTP TCP service, and...
We can see that the camera
is advertising HTTP.
So this was the first thing we did.
When I wanted to confirm that I'd
made the camera advertise RTSP,
before I embarked on a big programming
project on QuickTime Player,
the first thing to do is
browse on the command line.
And there we've successfully confirmed
that the camera is advertising.
So the second step was I went to
the QuickTime team and I asked for
a copy of the sources for QuickTime,
which I have on an encrypted disk
image in case I lose my laptop.
QuickTime Player is
just an Xcode project.
And if I build and run that,
you'll see QuickTime Player as
it was when I got it.
It has the open URL menu up here.
It has the menu of recent items,
but that's all.
So we thought this is a good place
for us to add Bonjour browsing on.
So let's go back to the source code here.
We only had to change two files,
and this was literally
an afternoon's work.
So first we will change the header file.
So the first thing I changed was we
added two NSNetServiceBrowser objects.
So we could browse for RTSP and QTTP.
And the Bonjour service
type QTTP semantically means
QuickTime movie file served over HTTP.
The reason it's not HTTP is
because it doesn't make sense
for QuickTime player to discover
every web page on the network.
It specifically wants
to discover movie files.
The transport protocol
happens to be HTTP,
but that's an implementation detail.
So we added the two extra objects,
and we added a new method to set
the URL text field to simulate as
if the user had typed something in,
the software will now automate it.
So that was all we had to
change in the header file.
Let me... I'm going to
actually apply those changes.
So let's...
So I've changed that file.
Now, the only other file we had to
change was the OpenURL panel.
We added one header file for
the struct SOC adder type.
This is the implementation
of the routine that
takes in a host name and a port and a
text record expressed as an NSDictionary.
And from that, it extracts the path key,
and it forms a URL,
either a form RTSP colon
slash slash or HTTP.
If there's a username there,
then it will put username, colon,
password, at, and then password.
If the port number is the default,
we don't put it in just
for cosmetic reasons.
If the port number is different,
then we have colon port number, slash,
and then the path.
So that builds a URL,
and then we call set string value to
put that string into the text field.
Looking a bit further on,
I'll actually jump down here.
When the window is opened,
we make an NSNetService browser,
and we browse for QTTP,
and we make another
one browsing for RTSP.
And there you'll see the close
routine that stops the operation
when the window is closed.
So let's apply some of
these changes to the file.
We will put the header file in,
we'll put the initialization in,
and we'll put the disposing at the end.
We now have-- so now that
we've started the browse,
in your code,
you would need to implement--
A Cocoa method called DidFindService,
which is called when a new
service is found on the network.
And in this code here,
you'll see we are making a menu item.
We are checking if we need to add a
separator item if this is the first
thing we're adding to the menu,
and we are adding the item and
enabling the button if this is
the first thing we're adding.
We have a corresponding remove
method if a service goes away,
because this is one of the things that's
very important about Bonjour browsing.
services are live.
You don't have a refresh button.
When services come along,
they get added to the list.
When they go away,
they disappear from the list,
and it's always live.
So the did remove service
tells you it's gone away.
We reverse what we did before.
We remove it, and if there are no
more things in the menu,
then we disable the button.
So let's apply that to our file.
When the user picks one of
the things from the menu,
we do a resolve with timeout
to go from that named service
to look up its host name,
port number, and the other details.
So we'll apply that.
And then the last change is what
we started looking at before.
Which is when the resolution completes,
the did resolve address is called.
We extract the text record dictionary,
the address, the port.
Depending on whether it's a V6 or IPv4,
we get the port number
out of the SOC adder.
And then we call this
setTextFilledWithType method
that I showed you earlier.
This is the real source
code for QuickTime Player.
And you just saw me make the changes.
So we will now go back to Xcode.
We'll build and run that.
Okay, that's linking.
It's running.
And now we see in the menu,
it's discovered the camera.
So it was literally that easy for us to
add Bonjour browsing to QuickTime Player.
We took those diffs back
to the QuickTime team,
and they said, that's pretty cool,
and now it's in the product.
We then showed that to the Access people,
and they said, that's pretty cool,
and now it's in the product.
This is their new model of the camera,
which is shipping sometime this month.
It's not out yet, but very soon.
And this now ships with
Bonjour advertising.
So this now... I have
to wait for it to boot.
This is booting up.
and they will be shipping this.
There we go, Access 207.
So now, and this has really,
really nice low-light performance.
For a consumer-level camera,
this is amazingly good in a dim light.
I can see you more clearly on the screen
here than I can standing here myself.
So now we have a shipping
product from Apple which
browses using Bonjour for RTSP.
We have a shipping product from
Access that browses with Bonjour.
There's a company nearby called Wizchip
that makes reference design boards and
they have all these little modules that
you can add on to this for prototyping.
That little camera module.
And they saw this and
thought that was exciting.
And in one afternoon,
they got the sources from Darwin,
they typed to make it, compiled,
they added the services.txt file,
they checked it into their CVS server.
So now all of the products that
license the WishChip design
are advertising with Bonjour.
And because they're a group
of people who use Linux,
they were very excited about that.
And they're adding Bonjour to VLC,
Video Landcast.
So now we've got multiple
clients browsing.
We've got multiple hardware
products advertising services.
And that's critical mass.
At this point, every camera vendor,
if they want to show up in QuickTime and
VLC will advertise with Bonjour,
anybody making software that
can view cameras will want
to browse for Bonjour because
that's how you find cameras.
And that is how you go from nothing
to a de facto industry standard in
the sense that you can't find cameras.
So you have to have a space of a couple
of months instead of a few years.
So with that, I'd like to ask Kieran
to come up on stage.
and tell you about Wadari Bonjour.
Can we go back to the podium machine,
please?
Thank you, Stuart.
My name is Kiran Sikar, and for Tiger,
I was working on extending Bonjour's
functionality beyond the local network.
This morning I'd like to take a few
minutes and give an overview of exactly
what wide area Bonjour is and how
it's going to impact your products
and the way we work with our machines.
Then I want to dive in and take a look
at some of the technology that goes
into bringing out this new functionality
and the steps we need to take to make
the most out of this new technology.
Then we're going to wrap up
by doing some live demos,
seeing how you can set this
up on your own networks.
White area Bonjour brings us two
new pieces of key functionality.
The first one's a dynamic DNS host name.
Now, this is analogous to the .local name
that we have in local area Bonjour.
But unlike a .local name,
this name is globally unique.
That means that when I name
my machine or device,
that name refers to my
machine and only my machine,
no matter where you are on the internet.
Now,
in addition to this name being unique,
it's also persistent.
That means that as I move about, say,
from my office to my
home to an internet cafe,
or as my IP address
changes for any reason,
my name stays the same and stays up
to date so that people can be able
to reach me no matter where I am.
Now, of course,
Bonjour is about more than just naming.
It's also about being able to
discover services on the internet.
With Wide Area Bonjour,
we can advertise our services
so that people outside of our
local network can discover us,
and we in turn can discover these
services outside of the LAN.
But just as important as
what's new with wide area
Bonjour is what stayed the same.
First of all,
the protocol semantics are the same.
We use the same DNS resource records to
convey information about our services.
But more importantly for all of you,
the APIs are unchanged.
These APIs were written from
day one to scale from the local
network to the wide area networks.
And we figured you guys probably
have enough of a transition
to think about right now.
So you likely won't have to change
a single line of code to use wide
area Bonjour in your applications.
Now,
it's great that the protocol is the same.
It's great that the APIs are the same.
But these are really secondary
to the user experience.
By taking the Bonjour user experience
from the local network that's made
the technology in all of your products
that leverage it so successful
and easy to use and extending it,
we complete the Bonjour experience,
which is bringing zero
configuration networking everywhere.
From the local networks where it started,
is the founder of Bonjour,
a mobile app that is designed
to manage networks with multiple
subnets and even across the internet.
And in doing this,
we bring reachability to everyone.
Traditionally, to be reachable,
you either had to be on a managed
network or have a static IP address
and know how to set that up.
With wide area Bonjour,
you don't need those things.
And by removing that restriction,
we bring reachability within the
grasp of a much wider audience.
Now, even if you have been
reachable in the past,
chances are once you went mobile,
your reachability went out the door.
With Wide Area Bonjour,
we have mobility and
reachability with ease of use,
bringing about new possibilities
for mobile collaboration.
If you already use Bonjour in your
application on the local network,
wide area Bonjour makes your
applications even more powerful while
still maintaining their ease of use.
On the other hand,
if you manage a network,
you might have found yourself wishing
that you had the Bonjour ease of use,
but not being confined
to a single subnet.
With Wide Area Bonjour,
you get just that.
You end up with a network that's both
easy for you to administer and flexible
and easy for your users to interact with.
Now, if you have a hardware product,
like the one that Stuart's just showed,
and you already use
Bonjour on the local network,
you know how Bonjour makes
your products easier to use,
giving you more satisfied customers,
and even lowering your support cost.
But wide area Bonjour can take that
competitive advantage even further,
and might even bring about new types of
devices that were previously impossible.
Now,
before this becomes a marketing talk,
I want to take a look at some
of the technology that goes
behind this new functionality.
With local Bonjour,
we use multicast DNS to query for and
advertise services on the local network.
With wide-area Bonjour,
we use those same resource records,
but instead of multicasting
them on the local network,
we communicate directly with a
central server using unicast DNS.
To discover services,
we simply issue a query to
the server and get a response.
And to register our services,
we use a kind of DNS known
as dynamic DNS update.
This is a standard part of DNS that,
when enabled,
allows a client to actually publish
its resource records into the server so
that they can be discovered by others.
Now, these two things,
unicast queries and dynamic update,
provide the basis for wide area Bonjour.
But we went ahead and actually
extended the DNS protocol using
DNS's native extension mechanism to
further enhance the user experience.
Take dynamic updates.
With a traditional dynamic update,
we update the server and that
record stays in the server
until we actively delete it.
Now that's fine for some applications,
but consider a laptop.
I plug in my laptop, register my name,
register my services,
and then unplug the Ethernet
cable and walk away.
Well, those records are going to stay
on the server indefinitely,
giving people who discover
them stale information.
So we extended dynamic updates
to contain a lease life,
allowing the server to garbage collect
these orphaned records and keeping
people's browse lists up to date.
Likewise, on the discovery side,
traditional DNS queries
are one-shot queries.
We ask a question and get an
answer that represents what's on
the server at that point in time.
But with Bonjour,
we want to do live browses to learn
as new services become available
and to find out when services that
we've previously discovered go away.
We don't want to have a refresh button,
and we want something that's more
scalable and more responsive than
just polling the server every
few minutes or every few hours.
So we created a new kind of
query called a long-lived query,
where we ask the server
for the set of answers,
and also to tell the server to
continue to let us know with
notifications as new services become
available or as services that we've
previously been told about disappear.
It's a little-known fact that that
notification mechanism is actually what
drives .Mac syncing when you get live
notifications as your sync data changes.
Now, unfortunately,
I don't have time to go into
the details of how those
protocols are implemented today,
but if you're curious,
they're all open specifications,
and they're documented on
the developer web page.
Now, a few things need to happen on the
client for a client to fully take
advantage of all those technologies.
First, we've got the discovery side.
Now, discovery is a truly zero
configuration experience.
As Stuart pointed out,
if you open up Safari on your laptop
and click the Rendezvous icon,
pardon me, the Bonjour icon,
old habits are hard to break,
you will see wide area websites that
are advertised in the apple.com domain.
That's because we've set the
network up here at Moscone to tell
clients to browse in apple.com,
and any services in apple.com's
domain will be picked up
automatically by your clients.
Now, we can also configure other domains.
For example,
if you wanted to continue browsing
in apple.com after you leave the
conference from your hotel room,
per se,
We do get a truly zero configuration
mobile experience as you move between,
say,
an airport that advertises local pages,
perhaps describing some of the
services or restaurants it offers,
or a hotel that describes services
containing some of the concessions
and services that it offers.
The advertisement side is
a little bit different.
Because we're using a
globally unique host name,
we can't just make one up.
You know,
if I try to name my laptop Google.com,
that's clearly not going to work.
So we need a unique host name
that's given to us by the person
who's running our Bonjour server.
Additionally, for registration domains,
we have one domain where
we want to register.
We don't want to just register wherever
the network tells us as we move about,
because the whole point is that you
register in one well-known place,
and as you move about between networks,
other people still
know where to find you.
And lastly,
if you're using Wide Area Bonjour behind
a firewall on a small network
with a trusted group of people,
you might be happy having a
completely open name server where
anyone can publish records into it.
But if you're on a bigger network or
you're using this on the open internet,
you clearly need some kind of
security system so that not anyone
can publish into your server.
So we use DNSSEC for this.
And if DNSSEC is being used
on your wide area server,
you'll need to add that
to the client as well.
Now, keep in mind that once
these things are set up,
we do have a truly zero
configuration experience.
Names and services are
registered automatically,
automatically deregistered.
They stay up to date as
your location changes,
and the browsers stay live.
Now, if you've been exploring in Tiger,
you might be wondering,
where's the UI to set
this up on the client?
Well, the truth is we're still
working on getting the UI up
to Apple's specifications.
That being said, on the path to bringing
Wide Area Bonjour to all of our users,
we're actually in a great place.
Most importantly,
all of the mechanisms for
Wide Area Bonjour are in
Tiger and exposed in Tiger's APIs.
In addition,
we've got the Wide Area Discovery,
which happens without
any configuration at all,
as you can see today on your laptops.
We've also got a fully
featured UI test tool.
Now, this is a test tool,
and it favors flexibility
over simplicity.
And it might not be pretty,
but it gets the job done.
And I'm going to walk you
through how to set it up today.
And what I'd love to have happen is
for all of you guys to download it,
take it back to your networks,
set up a Bonjour server,
get your colleagues using this UI tool,
and getting used to the wide
area Bonjour experience and
really understanding the value
that it adds to your products.
That way, when we do integrate
a UI into the system,
you guys are ready to
hit the ground running.
Now, if you really can't wait that long,
you can actually embed pieces of the
UI directly into the application.
One of our Apple applications
that does distributed video
rendering did just this.
Now, admittedly,
this is a short-term solution,
because we don't want separate
controls in every single application.
But if you do have special needs,
I urge you to go ahead and contact us,
and we can work with you to do
that in a way that's going to
be as maintainable as possible.
On the server side,
the configuration is actually quite easy.
We've got a web page up on dnssd.org.
is the founder of Bonjour,
a web service that gives step-by-step
instructions on how you can set up a
name server from scratch and configure
it to be a wide area Bonjour server.
Now, if you've ever looked at
DNS configuration files,
they're kind of yucky.
But this website is set up so that
you can really just copy it and paste
it and change just a few pieces,
as I'm going to show,
and you'll be ready to
hit the ground running.
The two main pieces we need
to set up are a zone file,
which describes the namespace where
we'll be registering and indicates
its capabilities as a Bonjour domain,
and a configuration file that
tells the name server to accept
dynamic updates and possibly
configure some security credentials.
Now,
not all name servers right now support
our DNS extensions for the long-lived
queries and the update leases.
So with Tiger,
we ship a daemon that implements
those two extensions and runs
alongside your standard name server.
And of course,
this is available on Darwin to use
with other name servers as well.
So now that we've got the server
set up and the client configured,
what do applications need to
do to use wide area Bonjour?
For most of you, nothing.
From day one,
we suggested that when you use our APIs,
when you have to specify a
domain parameter for either
registration or browsing,
you don't specify a particular domain
and instead pass the empty string,
allowing the system to choose
domains on your behalf.
Now, up until now,
that's just been the local domain.
But with wide area Bonjour,
the system can register and browse
in the local network as well as
whatever wide area domains are
appropriate for that environment.
Now, the one area of this that could
use a little polish is that
you're discovering services from
potentially a variety of domains,
and they're being
displayed in one flat list.
And that gets the job done,
and it's a great way for
unmodified applications to
benefit from this technology.
But you might run into cases where,
for example, you see one service on the
local network and another
service on a wide area domain,
and they have the same name,
and they show up next to
each other in the list,
and the user doesn't know
which is which until the user
actually selects the service.
If you want to refine this experience,
you can do what we call
multi-domain browsing.
And the Finder does this today in Tiger.
To do this, you need to use our
domain enumeration APIs,
which have been part of
the API from day one.
These return a list of domains,
which you can then
display in a hierarchy.
You then only need to browse
when the user actually
selects an individual domain,
and then you then show the
results just for that domain.
Now that we've covered
the basics of clients,
servers, and how the applications
interact with them,
I want to turn over to some
demos and look at setting up a
server with some static services,
as well as configuring
secure dynamic update.
And as well, I'd like to look at how we
can use our preference pane,
which is the test tool
to configure the client,
to interact with that server.
So if we could switch
over to the demo machine,
please.
So this is the web page which
describes how to set up a server.
It's not too long,
and most of it is actually description.
And unfortunately,
we're running a bit short on time,
so I don't have time to go
through it step by step.
But I will go ahead and set it up anyway,
and what I'd like you to take away
from this is how easy it is and how
it's mostly a matter of copying and
pasting and changing just a few things.
Here we've got our configuration file.
Now this configuration file is just
copied and pasted from the setup page.
Let me make this a little bigger for you.
So let's just go ahead and look
at the changes I had to make
to use this with my server.
This is the copy that the
name server will actually
read its configuration from.
And this is the sample.
The first change we had to
make here is the forwarders.
That's better.
So when a machine's running
as a wide area Bonjour server,
it answers queries for
records within its name space.
Right now I'm setting up a server
for the domain Bonjour.kiren.com.
Now, if this server gets a
query for something else,
say www.amazon.com,
it needs to know the address of
another server to send that off to.
So I go ahead and add my
normal DNS server here.
And the web page even shows you
how you can find the address of
your server on your OS X system.
After that,
it's really a matter of searching
and replacing Bonjour.example.com
with Bonjour.kiren.com.
The last thing we do is this is the
shared secret for secure dynamic updates.
Clients need to have this secret and
use it to sign their updates in order
for my secure server to accept them.
The web page shows how,
with a single Unix command,
we can generate a random secret,
and we then just go ahead and
copy and paste that in here.
Now, that takes care of the
configuration file.
Now let's look at the zone file.
The zone file describes the zone.
It gives information like the
time to live and also has the
resource records within that zone.
Now, if you're curious about
DNS and how this all works,
I encourage you to either read
online or buy one of the DNS books,
such as the Cricut book,
which are very good and very detailed.
But if you just want to
get this up and working,
again,
what you need to do is just copy and
paste the boilerplate from the web page
and change a few pieces where indicated.
So here's my finished zone file.
And here's the example
that was copied and pasted.
And here we only have two differences.
First, we need the address of the machine
itself that's running as the name server.
Here we have WAB for
wideareabonjour.example.com.
And I changed that over to
myserver.bonjour.curing.com.
This is typically the name that's
already been assigned to your
machine that's acting as the server.
And again,
we make that change in one more place.
And that pretty much takes care of it.
The one thing that I would like to
add are some static service records.
Now, these are not for dynamic
Bonjour registrations,
such as cameras or services
advertised by a laptop.
But these are things like the web
pages that you're discovering in
Safari that are in a fixed place
that we want our clients to discover.
So I have a few examples here
that I'm just going to copy
and paste into the zone file.
Here, we're advertising a printer.
Again,
don't worry too much about the details,
because this is documented
on the web page.
But the service type is printer.tcp,
and it's pointing to
our WWDC public printer.
Now, notice here that the name of
the printer that we're pointing
to isn't even in my domain,
bonjour.kieran.com.
Nonetheless,
I'm still able to advertise it
so that people on my network or
who are browsing in my domain can
discover it and connect to it.
We have a second one here
for our speaker printer.
And we've got an example web page.
This is the same type of record
as we have on the Apple.com
server that allows you guys to
discover these Bonjour services.
in case you haven't seen,
they're right here.
And if you open up your
Bonjour bookmark bar in Safari,
you'll see them yourself.
So now we have our files all set.
I'll make sure I've saved it.
What's left is to run
the name server and...
Our daemon that implements
the DNS extensions.
The name server doesn't
even take any arguments.
Just run it, and we're good.
The daemon takes a couple arguments.
The first one is the name of the zone.
And then because we're
using authentication,
we use -k,
indicating that we need a secure key,
followed by the name of the key,
which here is the same
as the name of the zone,
and the shared secret.
Launch those.
Just to make sure we
didn't have any typos,
we'll check the system log.
And the errors that you saw
there are actually benign,
and those are listed on
the web page as well.
Now... let's see if
this stuff is working.
Here we've got the
Bonjour preference pane.
We see three tabs-- Host Name,
Registration, and Browsing.
The host name is our unique host
name that identifies our machine,
that points to an address that
can change as we move about.
And since I myself am the
administrator of this zone,
I can pick my host name
and know it's unique.
So I'll name this machine Demo.Demo.
Bonjour.kiren.kiren.com as
well as the shared secret,
I can just copy and paste
from my configuration file,
if I can find it.
We click Apply.
See that the light turns green?
That means that our name
was successfully registered.
This name can now be used for anything
that you'd use a host name for.
You can ping it,
you can use it in finders,
connect to server.
And that right there gives us
a lot in terms of reachability.
But as I mentioned,
Bonjour is about more than just naming.
We want to be able to register
and discover services as well.
So in the registration tab,
I click the checkbox and enter my zone.
And again, enter my DNSSEC authentication
and click Apply.
Now, let's see if this is working.
Here we're just doing
our standard browse.
The Safari,
like many of your applications,
does these empty string browses where
the system picks domains for it.
Now, let's see if I can advertise
a web page with wide area
Bonjour and have it be discovered.
Click Personal Web Sharing.
It takes a few seconds
for Apache to fire up.
And there we have it.
I double click on it.
Oh, it decided to use my dot local.
Because we're using the same machine
as both the client and server,
we ended up using my .local name.
But just to show you that I'm
not using smoke and mirrors,
Well, let's try to print this page.
Here you can see we've discovered the
printer with the wide area registration.
And now, all of these services that
use Bonjour will register
and browse in wide area.
So we're actually running short on time,
and I don't want to take
up all of our Q&A time.
So let's go back to the
slides just to wrap up here.
So for some more information,
go to the Developer page.
We've got documentation.
We've got specs.
We've got links to the dns-sd.org page,
where you can find information to
set up the clients and the server,
as I just showed.
And we've got a few other sessions
that are directly related to Bonjour.
Later this afternoon,
we've got a lab where you can work
with the Bonjour team on integrating
Bonjour into your products.
We've got the Cocoa session,
which covers a variety
of networking topics,
including Bonjour.
And along with the beer
bash at Apple Campus,
we've got the
Apple Developer Connection Plugfest,
which is a great opportunity for
you to bring your products in,
show them to us as well
as the other developers,
and to work with the
Bonjour team on those products.
And for more information,
you can contact Craig Keithley,
who's our I/O evangelist and
also does evangelism for Bonjour.
He's also moderating our Q&A,
so if I could have Craig come up as
well as the rest of the Bonjour team.